The IRIS Space System shall be defined so that full operation is achieved through the phases described in paragraph 3.3.
The Pre-operational Space System shall be available in 2013 at the latest.
The Pre-operation phase shall be completed by 2017.
Full operational Space System shall be available no later than 2020.
For the Pre-operational System the minimum lifetime of the space segment shall be 4 years
After the full deployment, the minimum lifetime of each satellite should be 15 years.
"The SOC shall provide the following functionality: Operations and mission planning, Operations automation and execution, Operations validation"
The SOC shall provide satellite pointing correction mechanism
The SCC shall be able to perform on-board software management functions
"The SCC shall provide ranging measurements of the satellite(s). 
"The IRIS space segment shall be compatible with the following launch vehicles: Ariane 5 ECA, Soyuz 2.1b from Kourou (if applicable with respect to mass performance), Proton DM, Sea Launch (and Land Launch), H2A"
At the end of its nominal life, the satellite shall allow controlled transfer into a graveyard orbit or de-orbited
The Satellite shall be capable of venting its propellant tanks on ground command in case the end of life de-orbiting would not be possible, and this to avoid in orbit explosion and debris multiplication.
The Space Segment shall be designed to enable storage on ground of each satellite in a controlled environment for 5 years (TBC)
The SCC shall implement authentication and authorisation operator mechanisms
"The SOC shall include a satellite database consisting of: a. Orbital parameter database. b. Satellite specific information including configuration, mass property, fuel information, sensor information, thrusters information, etc. c. Command script files required for nominal and contingent operations. d. Telemetry display files including conversion coefficients, derived telemetry parameters and formulas, ranging parameters, etc"