SPACE SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 
Deployment and Operations
The IRIS Space System shall be defined so that full operation is achieved through the phases described in paragraph 3.3.
The Pre-operational Space System shall be available in 2013 at the latest.
The Pre-operation phase shall be completed by 2017.
Full operational Space System shall be available no later than 2020.
For the Pre-operational System the minimum lifetime of the space segment shall be 4 years
After the full deployment, the minimum lifetime of each satellite should be 15 years.
The IRIS Operational Space System design shall be such that the operational lifetime of the service has no end target.
The launch of replacement satellites shall not impact on the system operations
Operations of the ATM payload shall take precedence over the operations of the ancillary payload. This latter shall not reduce in any case system availability.
The IRIS Space System shall be able to cope with an increase in the need of capacity in the covered areas of TBD% per year from 2020 to 2035 .
SPACE SEGMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
Architecture
The IRIS Space Segment shall be composed of one or more satellites in GEO serving the specified coverage area (TBC)
During the operational phase, at any given time, the space segment configuration shall be such to ensure the compliance with the availability requirements [ND1]
"The IRIS space segment shall be compatible with the following launch vehicles: Ariane 5 ECA, Soyuz 2.1b from Kourou (if applicable with respect to mass performance), Proton DM, Sea Launch (and Land Launch), H2A"
Whenever applicable, the space segment design shall be compatible with a dual launch configuration.
The Space Segment shall be designed taking into account transportation to the launch site by airplane or/and by sea.
End-of-Life and Storage
At the end of its nominal life, the satellite shall allow controlled transfer into a graveyard orbit or de-orbited
The Satellite shall be capable of venting its propellant tanks on ground command in case the end of life de-orbiting would not be possible, and this to avoid in orbit explosion and debris multiplication.
The Space Segment shall be designed to enable storage on ground of each satellite in a controlled environment for 5 years (TBC)
ATM PAYLOAD
The ATM payload shall be compatible with the platform TMTC
Before launch, it shall be possible to remove and re-install ATM payload units from the spacecraft platform, should they require maintenance, repair, modification or replacement, with a minimum of disturbance to other satellite equipment and activities
ANCILLARY PAYLOAD
Before launch, it shall be possible to remove and re-install ancillary payload units from the spacecraft platform, should they require maintenance, repair, modification or replacement, with a minimum of disturbance to other satellite equipment and activities.
